 2020 just started, holidays have just ended. It’s the New Year! We are filled with new hopes of new experiences to experience, new people to meet, new stories to tell, in short, there are tons of new things waiting for us in the newborn year. The new academic year has started, so new classes had greeted us. Most of our classes are very exciting, especially our major classes, but the one that really stands out for me is our swimming classes! It’s like we have an outing every week and it’s free except for personal needs of course. Right at the start of January news about a new virus from China, COVID19 has shocked the world. Yet we are not frightened by this news as the cases are small and still far from us. We lived normal, not aware of the crisis about to happen. After the virus, the Iran-US conflict shocked us then. It scared the whole world, is this the start of the third world war? Luckily, the conflict ended before it grew bigger but the shocking news is still coming to us. Taal volcano has erupted, causing ash falls that reached Central Luzon. The ash falls destroyed and buried homes also many animals have died as they are left behind when citizens evacuated. Our kababayans needed help, especially supplies such as face masks for protection against harmful particles from the ash. Yet the government has given it away to our “friend” China. COVID19 is fast spreading to other nations, yet the government still welcomes visitors from the epicenter of the virus. The Filipinos demanded action such as a travel ban, yet others saw it as being racist and inhuman instead of being careful and preventive. Post on sympathizing on Chinese national that contains fake stories to capture the emotion of the mass has trended, calling our fellows as bad persons as they have no “compassion” even if the health of our own people would be at risk. In February travel ban has finally imposed, but it’s too late as an infected Chinese national has entered and may have spread the virus on their trip. The virus continues to spread to other nations, but our leaders are still downplaying it. Together with my classmates, we had passed our first chapter of the thesis and had it consulted with our prof. I’m filled with joy as our work has been approved. We are now near to the most awaited event in Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Pasig, the foundation week! It’s like a treat after midterm exams or hell week. As we’ve been relieved from school works then replaced by fear of the virus as we know it is silently creeping and attacking. March enters, this is it! The month of our foundation week! We are now registering for the different activities we like. Together with my close classmates we tried to audition for Battle of the bands but we fail to qualify, yet I still enjoyed our practice sessions. I registered also for Mobile Legends Tournament, so together with other classmates, we started practicing together hoping that a team in our class be the champion again like last year. We are having real fun even if school works are still there stressing us. Now the foundation week has come and it started on torch lighting as the start of sports fest. Cheer dance competitions of different colleges then occurred. There are many food stalls from the school entrance and the whole campus is decorated it feels festive. But all of this fun is halted early as the government imposed the first lockdown in Metro Manila. COVID19 is fast spreading yet plans against it are missing. The lockdown is supposed to be only short but due to poor planning, it becomes longer. Foundation week is now canceled, fun is no more. PLP planned to return classes as they hope lockdown will be done soon, but the expectations disappointed us. The government relied mostly on lockdowns and militarized approaches and the medical approach by the government against the virus is very slow. Lockdowns that supposed only in weeks become a month. PLP now canceled classes until the next academic year, giving students finals grade based on the midterm grades. Now I have the longest vacation I’ve experienced, so I tried to not waste it. I did self-study on programming languages I need and want, also on our lessons skipped due to the cancellation of classes. I also tried exploring my own skills like music, cooking, and art. I tried to have fun while being restricted in my own home away from friends and loved ones. The lockdowns now became months.  As the COVID19 continues to spread, my kababayans are finding protection mostly face masks as it is effective against the virus. This high demand is grabbed by opportunists and they hoarded supplies then sold it at unreasonable price. Due to lockdowns, the economy is hit hard and many families are now hungry as their income also stopped. We are now facing a crisis. To ease the hardships of our kababayans, cash aid and food donations have been given by the government yet solutions and plans are still not drafted well. Even if my family is in the middle class, the lockdowns affected us so much we are experiencing hunger. We relied on borrowing money from our relatives and we are so blessed that we have someone to rely on. Yet many are doomed as they have no one to plead for help. Months passed lockdowns are slowly being lifted up, others can now return to work. In our family, only my elder brothers and sister had worked again as public transportation is still limited my father can’t take rides on our UV express. My brothers’ income is not much so we are still having hardships and now my family’s debt becomes larger. The government also facing an economic crisis and needed more funds to “address” the pandemic so the country’s debt raised too much it concerned us so much. Because of our family’s low income, we are not able to pay for our internet connection so our ISP disconnected us. My self-study relies on online courses so it is halted too. Thankfully, lockdowns have started to bring results and COVID19 cases are now being steady. Lockdowns have been eased, my father can take rides again. Because it is still not safe to come back to school, classes are now online. Such a decision caused backslash as others could be left behind as they don’t have the necessities for an online class such as a good internet connection and device to use. Yet the decision is continued and our concerns have come true, the worst is that others committed suicide due to frustration. Even if online classes are so hard, I’m very thankful for my professors who are so considerate of our situation and they can accept the request for extensions of deadlines. Yet there are other Profs that maybe feels so comfortable with their privilege that they just ignore the students plead that experiencing the crisis harder than others. Currently, we just survived the midterms and fighting through the finals. Continuing on learning and passing activities and assignments. It is now the month of December and Christmas is near, lockdowns are still present (just wow) wishing that next year it will end.
 <br><br><br>All of these experiences I had in 2020 made me realize that those we should be able to rely on can be the ones that will doom us. More than ever I really believed political persons are not to be fully trusted as most of them focusing on preserving their power before public service. But through the dark tunnel, light is waiting. Even if everybody is facing this crisis, there are still people that are ready to reach out their hand for you. The whole nation has fallen under a deep hole, yet humanity is still present. My faith for my generation has been restored as there are still many who are not scared to project their voices out for others and for the better. I also realized how blessed I am as I do not experience the same hardships as others.  <br><br><br>